Both poems address the responsibilities of adulthood, specifically matters of wealth and deal with advice and decisions. Each poem establishes wealth and material possesions as superficial. However, they rely on different methonds to make this claim. Samuel Johnson's poem focuses on ecouraging the squadering of wealth and material possessions. Housman's poem compares wealth to love to establish the superficial nature of wealth. He recommends being frugal with one's heart rather than with one's wealth. Although it may seem as if Johnson's poem adopts an attitude which encourages one to become consunmed by material possesions, the speaker makes the claim that wealth is superficial in the final stanzas of the poem, "What are acres? What are houses? / Only dirt, or wet or dry". Dirt is useless. It has no actual value. Although these claims are made with the intention of encouraging reckless living and teh squandering of wealth, they also function to solidifies the notion that wealth is superficial. The speaker in Housman's poem instead choses to use a comparison and shift the focus towards love rather than primarily focus on wealth. He lists all of the things that should be squandered carlesly. In essence, this small list defines an entire category. A category that contains everything that is not love. This listing of things that should be given up freely is split by lines that begin with "but". These lines serve to compare love and its value to superfelous possesions and establish the magnitude of its importance. Consistently the speaker claims, give these things away, all of these things, BUT do not practice the same behavior in the area of realtionships and love. Additionally, the point of view of the speaker is unique in this poem and serves to add further credibility to its claims. Because the speaker is reflecting and admitting the truth of the statements he once ignored he is able to present the advice more effectivley to readers who are coming of age that may have a similar point of view as he did. 